# Results

**Drosophila show significant modulation of peripheral sensitivity to an important food-related odor**
Fruit flies’ sensilla, the sensory hairs covering the surface of the antennae and the maxillary palps, are classified by their morphology, and the neuronal types they are housing. The ab3, one of the large antennal basiconic sensilla, was shown to be housing 2 different ORNs. And the neuron with the larger spike amplitude, in the electrophysiological recordings, was named ab3A, the other one with the smaller spikes, ab3B [3]. The ab3A neurons express Or22a OR which is the receptor for ethyl butyrate, a volatile ester found in apples and many other fruits [4]. By using electrophysiological single-sensillum recordings (SSR) (Fig. 1-A), we examined fruit flies’ olfactory sensitivity to apple odor and ethyl butyrate which is a major component of various fruit odors. As expected, Or22a neurons robustly responded to the apple odor, in addition, they were sensitive enough to respond to the very low concentration of ethyl butyrate (Fig. 1-B).
Next we wondered, if the sensitivity of Or22a neurons is changeable. Indeed, we found the sensitivity of Or22a neurons to fruit odor ethyl butyrate increases over time after eclosion until it reaches to the maximum level in 3 days (Fig 1-C). This result suggests that it is possible to make the insects' olfactory sensitivity stay low by removal of the genetic components underlying the sensitization mechanisms.

**NPF signaling underlies the sensitization mechanism for Or22a neurons**
Out of the results of gene knock-down screenings and preliminary experiments, we found knock-down of NPF, by using NPF RNAi and 386Y-Gal4 pan-peptidergic neuron driver, reduces the sensitivity of Or22a neurons, also as expected, knock-down of NPF by using NPF producing neuron-specific NPF-Gal4 driver, also desensitized Or22a neurons (Fig 4-B). Furthermore, prolonged exposure of the female parasitoid wasps, Leptopilina heterotoma, to the female wild-type flies significantly reduced the sensitivity of Or22a neurons, which is a consistent result with the previous report that exposing female parasitoid wasps to female fruit flies reduces NPF level in the fly brain [5]. These results clearly demonstrate that down-regulation of NPF in the brain make the Or22a neurons desensitized.
