Figure 2. Down-regulation of NPF desensitize fruit odor-sensitive Or22a neurons.

The quantification of the electrophysiological SSR of Or22a neurons for the sensitivity to ethyl butyrate 10-6, 10-5 (v/v) in NPFR-downregulated flies (A, B). Immunostaining for NPF after NPF knocked-down shows absence of NPF in the brain (C). The quantification of the electrophysiological SSR of Or22a neurons for the sensitivity to ethyl butyrate 10-6, 10-5 (v/v) in NPFR-mutant flies (D). The quantification of the age day-dependent sensitivity of Or22a neurons to EB 10-6 (v/v) in the early adult stage of the NPFR mutant and the control flies (E). (A, B, D, E. n≥6, Error bars: 95% CI, statistics: 2-way ANOVA, ***P ≤ 0.001)  


Figure 2. Down-regulation of NPF-NPFR signaling desensitize fruit odor-sensitive Or22a neurons.

The quantified odor-evoked activities of Or22a-expressing ab3A neurons responding to 10-6, 10-5 (v/v) ethyl butyrate for the NPF-downregulated flies by the peptidergic neuron-specific 386Y-GAL4 (A) and the NPF producing neurons-specific NPF-GAL4 (B) respectively. The 7-14 day-old flies of mixed sexes were used for recordings. (C) NPF immunostaining (green) for the NPF-GAL4 driven NPF-downregulated flies show absence of NPF in their brains. (D) The sensitivity of ab3A neurons are decreased by disrupting NPF signal due to ablation of NPF receptor. (E) The increase of ab3A sensitivity cannot be accomplished without NPF signaling. Data for (A, B, D, E) are presented as means ± 95% confidence interval, n≥6, two-way ANOVA, *P ≤ 0.05, ***P ≤ 0.001. (F) The higher level of NPF in the male’s brain of the one day-old flies explains the sexually dimorphic ab3A sensitivity of w1118 flies in (E). Whiskers indicate minimum and maximum values, n≥6, t-test, **P ≤ 0.01.
